>> Todd Gardner: So, let's talk about,
why should I bother making
developer stickers online fast?
Why is web performance important at all?
I have other things to do,
I could design a bunch more stickers and
put it on the site and
hopefully make some more money.
Or I could focus on web performance,
why should I spend the time doing this?
There's three big reasons the why
web performance is important.
First, user experience,
second Search Engine Optimization or
SEO and third online advertising.
And all three are important for
the e-commerce store depending at
what kind of website you work on,
maybe two of these are important or
one of these is important.
But one of these is important to
every single website on the planet.
So, let's talk about each of those in
depth, why is web performance important?
Well, from a user perspective, from the
user coming to your site, generally, we
could say, web performance is important,
so I don't strangle you with frustration.
Because I'm gonna be so angry visiting
your site that I'm going to want to leave.
If the users feel this, you definitely
know you have a web performance problem.
But let's be more specific than that,
the user experience of your website
is how well your website meets or
exceeds the expectations of your user.
When an internet visitor comes to your
site, they have a certain expectation
of how fast it's gonna load based on
similar sites, historical experience.
What they're trying to do, how important
your site is to their day-to-day life,
all sorts of things, so it's about
understanding user expectations.
Now you could say, maybe an easier way to
solve this is the key to happiness is just
to lower everybody's expectations and
then we wouldn't have to worry
about any of this, you know what?
That's a great idea,
let's just lower everybody's expectations,
the website shouldn't load in less than
two minutes, and let's go about our day.
Websites would be so
much easier to build if we didn't have
all these needy high expectations users.
Unfortunately, we can't
buy fiber connections and
fast devices for
every single user on the planet, so
we have to figure out ways to
make our website fast instead.
So, let's talk about
common user expectations.
And this is data based on real research,
not weird vendor specific research,
but like academic research about
human-computer interactions over time.
And the IEEE response times found that for
effective communication,
some sort of response is needed
within two seconds of a request.
So, if the user makes an action,
they should feel something
has happened in two seconds.
And if they don't, they immediately think
this is slow and they feel interrupted.
Any weight that's longer than two
seconds breaks concentration and
affects their productivity.
So, if I'm trying to do something,
if I click on an ad or if I add
something to my cart or if I submit
a request to your website in any kind,
if you don't give me something in
two seconds, I lose what I'm doing.
My brain wanders, I have the intention
span of a goldfish, and I'm gone and
I'm thinking about other things.
I'm thinking about the shed
I want to build, or
something like that, so two seconds.
So, it's more granular than that, it's
not just two seconds is its magic point.
So, usability engineering study found
that the user's concentration or
the user's interaction with something
changes at different rates.
So, if you can respond in
less than 0.01 seconds,
the user feels that's effectively instant.
They don't notice any delay,
they feel like something happened
immediately that's great.
If the user experiences one second,
they notice it,
it's like, something happened, but
it doesn't interrupt their flow.
It doesn't get in the way of what they're
doing, that's not enough time for
their brain to switch gears and
think about something else, so
one second is this cool number.
But if you do 10 seconds or more,
if something stops for 10 seconds,
the users almost universally
feel frustration and
break their concentration and
their flow, they're done.
10 seconds is really, really bad in
terms of understanding how humans and
computers are going to interact.
Now, if we apply that
directly to websites, and
the expectations that users
have of the web, time is money.
A book on web performance found in
a large study that 40% of users, 40% will
abandon a site if they wait three seconds
over the large data set of all users.
So, three seconds, if you don't get there,
40% of them are just gone,
75% of users that experience
what they feel is slow.
If the user would describe their
experience on your website is slow,
75% of them just will never come back.
They don't trust your store,
they don't like your store,
they don't like the experience,
they won't look at your cat gifs anymore,
they're done,
75% of users are just going to bail.
Now, that's just some general
expectations around user experience.
Your user experience for your app
depends a lot on what you're doing and
how important that is.
And we're going to talk a lot more about
that later in the section around setting
goals for performance of your site.